Projects

    Title: Urban L^3, Spring 2018
Role: Project Manager
As a group, led by Professor Toby Cumberbatch in the Spring of 2018 for the Sustainable Engineering course, we investigated the application of naturally driven, closed loop, human support systems to more efficiently source and utilize water, energy, and food. We implemented our research by building a life-sized replica of a typical NYC apartment retrofitted with realizable sustainable systems for food, water, and energy. We engaged and offered insight to our community (extending beyond the academic audience to a larger lower-Manhattan public) through our concept apartment a practical application of closed loop systems.

Title: Data Visualization for Center for Employment Opportunities, Spring 2019
Role: Data Engineer
This was an interdisciplinary group project for the Data Science for Social Good course taught by Professor Sam Keene. Center for Employment Opportunities is a non-profit who's mission is to assist formerly incarcerated people reintegrate into society through job placement. We were given data on their participants and tasked with designing data visualization that could be used for educational and outreach purposes. After parsing this data through numerous data cleaning processes we designed an interactive data installation showing the barriers formerly incarcerated people face when looking for employment.

    Title: The Union Journal, 2019-2020
Role: Lead Developer
The Union Journal, an ongoing student led publication, released for their second issue a digital publication entitled SANDBOX. Working with a team of artists, engineers, and architects, we published student submitted works on an interactive website. SANDBOX's call to action encouraged readers to reconsider our approaches to content – how we engage with websites through accepted norms of headlines, subheadlines, and bylines — and how, through the removal of these crucial elements, we might open up new ways of interacting. We wished to lead readers through unknown organizations of thought in such a way that they might uncover otherwise overlooked outcomes.

    Title: Shenzhen Biennial 2020: Hiding from the Eyes of the City
Role: Machine Learning Engineer
Engineers and architects, with guidance from Professor Sam Keene and Benjamin Aranda, participated in the Shenzhen Bi-City Biennale of Urbanism/Architecture by building a piece entitled “Hiding from the Eyes of the City”. The installation, a kiosk, implemented facial recognition technology in real-time. This allowed participants to engage with contemporary means of surveillance, and more importantly the simple methods required to subdue and scramble the technology. Participants explored the mechanisms and conditions of this surveillance tech by realizing that even something as simple as a dotted sticker on a face could be what stands between surveillance and anonymity.

    Title: Summonses Suck!, Spring 2020
Role: Front End Engineer
As part of Data Science for Social Good, an interdisplinary course taught by Professor Sam Keene, we built a website rendering analysis that was conducted using data sets provided by Professor Harry G.Levine at Queens College CUNY, and NYC Open Data. This analysis explored the nature of policing in New York City as it relates to summons geographically between the years 2006 and 2019. We wanted to investigate the connections between the development of CompStat and the evolution of policing under Bloomberg's and DeBlasio's tenure as mayors, to track variances in police activity across neighborhoods.

    Title: Fake Fonts: Experiments in AI Type Design, 2019
Role: Machine Learning Engineer
The research project, conducted by a team of four engineers with faculty advisement from Professor Christopher Curro, aimed to develop a neural network that could generate new vector-based typefaces. We focused our research on autoencoder models and generative adversarial networks. Later work was conducted by a smaller team to propose a method to pre-process glyph data in order to support networks learning adequate vector representations of type.

    Title: urban-scapes.org, Spring 2020
Role: Machine Learning Engineer
I worked with a group of architects in their studio design course to develop and implement an interactive website using satellite imagery in order to explore patterns of urban density and informal settlements. We gathered available satellite imagery that we manually segemented into distinct density levels to then train a model capable of learning the patterns outlined. We attributed each density level a separate color that could then be painted unto a digital canvas hosted on urban-scapes.org to create abstract topography maps. The model allowed us to render these color maps into new imagery of urban settlements in an exercise to better understand changing urban conditions.

    Title: GLAD, artist feature, 2022
Role: "Machine Learning Intervention" Artist
I collaborated with mmyope (an amorphous / nyc / kindness based group) on the realization of their second book, GLAD. GLAD is a science fiction story tackling the subject of collective memory and the collective conception of memory. As such, we worked on building a progressive machine learning model of "imagined" trees. We implemented these images by way of QR codes placed throughout the book where each subsequent code brought forth these generated images in greater dimension - producing real images meant to replace lost instances of reality.
